inflation numbers keep coming out
they're going down and yet prices keep
going up what's the deal why is this
happening in today's video I'm going to
show you why the Federal Reserve has
their hands tied and will have to
actually reverse course print a lot of
money in the next little while this will
create much more inflation higher prices
are in your future and I'll tell you why
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you in this video we're
going to break this down why this is the
case throughout I'll show you all the
data that I have right now up until this
point to make the case for the Federal
Reserve to reverse course on their
quantitative tightening policy what's
that all about I'll give the whole deal
and I'll make it real simple let's begin
by looking at what's been going on with
inflation if you see the news what do
they say inflation is going down
inflation is desel ating we're having
disinflation any which way you want to
say it basically you could look at it on
various charts and in different
measurements when we talk about
inflation that could be measured a
million different ways you use the
official government statistics you'll
see charts like this it was higher
previously now that has come down as the
central banks in this case the Federal
Reserve had been increasing interest
rates that slows things down and as a
result we can see that in infation has
declined when you look at specifically
shelter that has been the one that has
really put the screws in people there's
no question about that this is showing a
lot of realtime data so it's like Zillow
and others where we can see the trend of
prices going up has flipped and gone the
other direction so um this just barely
by the way and what we're seeing is that
the prices you know they're not going up
as much as they did before that's across
the board that's like a you know very
broad when you look at certain areas
certainly the prices are going up but
using real-time data it is interesting
to see what has happened but what about
like real stuff like why do we use all
these statistics that are not even
accurate I mean this is what we need to
be looking at and that is the prices in
the form of an index of things of stuff
well those prices keep going up I don't
know about you but when I go to the
store when I have to purchase a service
I keep thinking to myself where is the
ceiling on the price of this thing
because every time I need to go and do
that it's much more than it was
previously more more than it was the
month before more than the year before
looking back a few years ago I think my
goodness I thought it was expensive back
then and yet here we are today do you
find the same thing I mean I've read
your comments before and for so many
it's been
incredible so we're going to talk about
the Federal Reserve we're going to look
at what they've been doing but I just
want to acknowledge What's Happening
Here up until this point right I think
we can all be on the same page with that
so you might ask the question what's
next what comes of this first I want to
talk about something here investing has
changed and the traditional 60/40
portfolio is now a terrible idea you
need to get into alternative Investments
I've talked about several before on the
channel and now I want you to check out
this platform gigar Market allows
Everyday People to invest in their
favorite creators you'll see popular
names in the financial space like clear
value tax for example if you invest you
basically get a financial stake in that
YouTube Channel's future Revenue check
out the link at the top of the
description for more info what I like
about this platform is that you're
becoming an active investor you can do
your due diligence and you see a very
clear growth trend of a YouTube channel
and you could invest in that similar to
how you would with stock remember the
channel creator has an incentive for
themselves to grow and as a result
you're able to potentially benefit from
that as well today people are finding
themselves investing in assets that
didn't even exist exist just a few years
ago and I would urge everyone to
understand the importance of
diversification of our assets so that we
can make the best use of our Capital so
click the link below to find out more
about this
opportunity you are looking at a very
important chart and that is the
comparison of M2 M2 think of that like
the amount of money that's in
circulation and they created in a short
period of time they created I think it
was
40% of all the money in creation before
that you know all of that was created in
like a year a year and a half 40% so
imagine that like snap of the finger and
they created an additional
40% of that money straight up anyway the
point here is that that is now
decelerated consistently and what we
have seen over time is that when that M2
when the amount of money growth starts
to decline it happens to also coincide
with
inflation now if that's the case it's
like um this is by the way the M2 is
leading by 16 months so it's just giving
us a little bit of insight as to where
it's about to go and if history is any
guide that means inflation is about to
go lower as measured by the CPI okay and
the PPI as well so that means we are in
for what some would consider to be
deflation all right okay hang on to that
thought I want you to understand what's
going
on look at this housing costs if shelter
costs cool over the next few months
overall inflation could slow below the
3% rate for the first time since 2020
what we're looking at here is the expect
ation of a big change something major
happening where suddenly prices aren't
increasing the way they were before and
that gives people a little bit of
breathing room hoping that wages will go
and actually be able to catch up is that
going to be the
case let's be honest about that a lot of
people are going to be squeezed we need
to be aware of this we need to
understand that this is a very different
world now today if you remember bber
nanki had some very important things to
say over the years and it was really
telling here in this quote I want to
break it down really quickly because
they talked about the third mandate the
creation of the wealth effect that's
right stock prices Rose during that
period of time before the financial
crisis long-term interest rates fell
when investors began to anticipate
additional action and higher stock
prices will boost consumer wealth and
help increase confidence which can also
spur spending increased spending will
lead to higher incomes and profits that
in a virtuous cycle will further support
economic expansion so he's talking about
this right after the financial crisis
and you got to understand they're
basically saying when we are printing
money or even the suggestion that this
will happen that creat Ates this cycle
and it helps it's the forward guidance
this is going on today they are telling
everybody that wink wink nudge nudge at
some point we're going to be cutting
rates at some point we're going to um by
the way they're they're not even
suggesting that they are going to
normalize the the balance sheet they
were saying that back then in 2010
normalize the balance sheet but now
today they don't so they're making it
very clear that they are going to expand
that they are going to actually go even
further but when that's the question
when when is this going to happen buddy
well if you remember last year I talked
about the bottom of the stock market I
said this in September September of last
year I said it looks like it could be
the time in which we see at least the
near-term bottom of the market then
about a week or two later I reiterated
that point once again and now here we
are looking back at this the market as
suggested by the title of this article
by the way is that the market investors
are trying to front run the federal
reserve's actions they're always trying
to get ahead of that now they're pricing
it to Perfection but that's what they
are trying to do and the market right
now depending on what you're looking at
is near or at all time highs and you
could see this oecd inflation is at the
lowest in two years looking at the
central banks diverging on rates some
are
tightening some haven't moved at all
some are starting to cut and what I
would say is that we you know the
actions generally move together you
could see a few emerging economies that
will might be out of whack but in
general they start to move together and
in these circumstances right here we
could see this trend is the one that is
in the future for
2024 mortgage rates are falling at the
fastest Pace since the 2008 housing
market crash they it was at 8% in the
United States 8% that started to fall 7%
and so on and you could see that this
has been going on while the Federal
Reserve has still kept interest rates at
their level of of 5 and A4 to 5 and a
half this is important okay because it's
always the anticipation it doesn't
necessarily have to be an action that
takes place Fed rate hikes are over
economists say here's what experts say
you should do with your money Ah that's
right they're giving you these
suggestions but the point here is that
the market doesn't believe the you can
look at the actual fed Futures fed funds
Futures and see that they expect next
year that there will be a big change and
part of that is this I think a lot of
people don't understand why this
information is is very useful very
important I talk a lot about this on my
finance Friday sessions that I do live
sessions talk about that um you could
you could see the link in the
description under the mentorship you go
down
mentorship but basically what we are
seeing right now is that the fed's hands
will be tied that is supposed to be at a
much later day but I'm here to tell you
why this could actually be much sooner
than anybody anticipated let's check
this out the fed's continued tightening
has come as more than $1.2 trillion has
drained from the central bank's
overnight reverse repo facility that's
where money market funds earn interest
on their excess cash cash well they've
been doing that they've been parking
their money trying to get some cash to
then give back to their investors right
that's what's been happening well the
RRP balances are currently at $839
billion and the concern is that once the
facility is empty the FED will have to
Halt QT that's quantitative tiing now I
know that's really complicated I know
that's a lot but just understand that
this was at like 2 3 trillion a day that
has now gone down to $839 billion that
liquidity is being drained the Federal
Reserve is not there to buy up all this
stuff anymore so the market is supposed
to be there like a sponge soaking it up
but there's only so much that it can do
the Federal Reserve needs to be there to
actually step in to actually do this and
act like you know a stimulus in in all
cases all years never ending that's what
it needs and the market is basically
saying the investors are saying you
better do this we are going to go out
there we're going to demand it so you
better do this and we're going to act as
if you're already doing
so and so that is the uh very big
concern because we don't know what's
going to happen nobody knows certainly I
could make a guess but just looking at
it in this way it is very evident that
what we're seeing right now is something
that you know most people would just
gloss over we can't do that look at this
that's just one point here's the other
eyes on the reverse Repose the rapid
decline in overnight reverse Repose has
ignited debate over how soon the FED may
need to end the reduction of its balance
sheet that's right and so we can see
that I mean for a while there for a long
while it was seeming like they were just
going to go up and up and up and up and
up and you know it did stick around that
$2.3 trillion a day Mark for quite some
time that is a big big concern okay uh
reverse reples shrinking fast you could
see again same information this is the
concern um just seeing it at this time
as they say the FED has cut its treasury
Holdings it's mortgage back Securities
by nearly $1.2 trillion since June of
2022 a reduction that has occurred
alongside of its aggressive rate Rises
which are the main tool to influence the
economy they have repeatedly said that
they are cutting their Holdings going to
take quite a bit more time right but
when does it all end it's the all about
liquidity and the
expectation as of now is that that
they'll be forced to stop QT it's not
like you know oh but Powell said it is
forced the reverse REO facility is
widely viewed as a proxy for excess
liquidity that can be easily removed
closely watch alongside its level of the
Bank Reserves on deposit at the fed and
by the way what that means is like think
about you have a commercial bank they
can take their excess reserves okay the
the cash that you put in your bank they
could take the excess because it's
fractional Reserve Banking and they
could park that at the Federal Reserve
to earn some money on your money right
you give it to the bank the bank gives
it to the fed well that is what they're
talking about there and while reverse
repos have been diving reserves have not
big time in fact and so I have made this
very clear I call this the money mirror
method I have have a video about that if
you look at the playlists on my channel
you will see that the money mirror
method tells you exactly what's going on
and I Do cover that on the on the
finance Fridays live sessions but what I
am seeing very clearly is that there is
a relationship between those reserves
and the stock market and on Q on Q this
came into effect yet again the reserves
have been climbing and so has the stock
market it's like clockwork the money
mirror method is so accurate and um
that's why I've been trying to refine it
trying to pay very close attention to it
so I can bring people the information as
I see it I've been looking at this for a
long time and it is very clear to me
what's been going on and the direction I
was able to pinpoint that last year
because I'm looking at this data and so
I hope that you'll tune in and I hope
that you'll continue to get this
information uh I'm trying to bring it to
you as best I can if you want um the the
information about that group that we
have just go to the link in the
description under the mentorship you
know initially it was called mentorship
and you can go here and you can
basically see all the details gives you
everything okay everything you need to
know is on that page right there under
mentorship the link is in the
description the comment of the day all
right thank you Gary so what what'll
this next year recall the crash of 24 or
the beginning of the Dark Ages 2.0 we
will see what happens I am very hopeful
that things will be okay we never know
though this is the circumstance we find
ourselves in and we can just be informed
be prepared as best we can and certainly
uh you know prepare for the worst hope
for the best as they say if you
appreciate this information hit that
thumbs up when you're hitting the thumbs
up it's not just to support me which I
thank you for but it's also to tell the
algorithm hey this guy's got some good
stuff and that will actually help go in
people's feeds so I do want to thank you
for that as well I want to ask you to
come back tomorrow where I'll get into
some more information each and every day
bringing the latest and greatest I'll
see you then take care